our research shows that your thoughts
can make you sick and the question is if
your thoughts could make you sick can
your thoughts make you well that's
absolutely possible and it's easy to
learn so when you wake up in the morning
Dr Joe dispen researcher and
best-selling author one of the most
sought-after speakers in the world all
with the aim of helping people better
understand and unlock the power of their
mind I'm concerned about human species
why 75 to 90% of every person that goes
to a health care facility goes because
of psychological or emotional stress and
it gets addictive to people they need
the bad relationship a bad job in order
to feel and there's so much research to
show that when they analyze their life
within some disturbing emotion we saw
that they were actually making the brain
worse but 50% of that story isn't even
the truth people are reliving a
miserable life they never even had just
to excuse themselves from changing you
can't wait for your wealth to feel
success you can't wait for your new
relationship to feel love but 95% of Who
We Are by the age of 35 is programmed
yeah but there is a way to change and so
the model of change is breaking the
habit of the old self and Reinventing a
new self if you teach people how to do
that in 7 days you can see very
significant changes so try this out as
an experiment first thing you have to do
is Dr Joe you're someone that's
constantly doing research and developing
new ideas about way humans are and the
way the universe is what are the beliefs
in your head that you're too scared to
share oh boy I I have a very strong
belief
that before this episode starts I have a
small favor to ask from you 2 months ago
74% of people that watched this channel
didn't subscribe we're now down to
69% my goal is 50% so if you've ever
liked any of the videos we've posted if
you like this channel can you do me a
quick favor and hit the Subscribe button
it helps this channel more than you know
and the bigger the channel gets as
you've seen the bigger the guests get
thank you and enjoy this
[Music]
episode Dr
Joe 95% of Who We Are by the age of 35
is
programmed when I read that in your work
kind of hit me like a ton of bricks
because I just turned
30 and if what you're saying there is
true without realizing it there's a
puppet master that sits above me that's
calling the shots in a way that I don't
think I've
realized is that true I think if we
Define a habit is is a redundant set of
automatic unconscious thoughts behaviors
and emotions that's acquired through
repetition The Habit is when you've done
something so many times that your body
now knows how to do it better than your
conscious mind then it's program
subconsciously so then when the body
knows how to do it better than the
conscious mind then for the most part
the greatest habit we have to break is
the habit of being ourselves right so
there's a principle Neuroscience that
says that nerve cells that fire together
wire together if you keep thinking the
same way uh if you keep making the same
choices if you keep doing the same
things if you keep reproducing the same
experiences and feeling the same
emotions your biology begins to become
hardwired in a sense it be it becomes
programmed so in order to change uh
something to arrive at a new vision of
your future if you were wanted to arrive
at a new goal or new vision of your
future you'd have to change something
about yourself in order to get there and
you'd have to change the way you think
the way you act and the way you feel
when you begin to become
conscious of those unconscious thoughts
so conscious that you don't let them
slip by your awareness unnoticed or
unchecked by you if you catch yourself
speaking in a limited way or um you're
you become conscious that you're
behaving in a certain way in
habit and can notice or pay attention to
how you're feeling then you're no longer
the program now your Consciousness
observing the program you're only
unconscious when you're in the program
and so to change then is to become so
conscious that you don't don't go
unconscious again and in a sense that is
consciousness that is really the puppet
master that really decides who we want
to be I think the biggest problem uh is
that people lose their free will uh to a
set of programs and so their body is
basically um programmed into a
predictable future based on what they've
done in the past so to change then to
change that habituation takes an
enormous amount of energy an enormous
amount of
awareness why is this operating system
this program useful because I look at
everything that I the way that I do and
from doing this podcast and speaking to
experts I've stopped thinking that my
body is against me and I've stopped
realiz I've started to realize that
there's a reason for these things
there's a reason for the habits and
patterns and so why is this useful
because it seems to be working against
me in so many ways well um first of all
um when we when we look closely at uh
certain habits whether you um can ride a
bicycle whether you can speak a language
whether you can snowboard when you first
learn any of those things it takes an
enormous amount of conscious awareness
is to get your body to do what your mind
is
intending but if you keep doing it over
and over again then the body begins to
economize it in some way and so we have
a lot of things that we can do
automatically or unconsciously or
subconsciously that allows us to
multitask to drive your car to talk on
the phone to do several different things
at the same time so a habit isn't a bad
thing they can work for you or they can
work against you the problem is is if
you're
as an example
complaining and blaming and making
excuses and feeling sorry for yourself
and judging other people and you
practice that and you get really good at
whatever you practice you practice that
enough times that you're unconscious to
the fact that you're doing it um the
moment you become conscious that you
want to change that uh you're going to
be uncomfortable uh it's going to feel
unfamiliar it's going to feel some
degree of uncertainty you're Le kind of
familiar known territory and you're
stepping into the unknown and so uh many
people when they want to change a habit
um they have to be willing to be
uncomfortable to do it but habits can
work for us uh there's a lot of great
habits that you and I both have that I
would never want to change or would want
to evolve in some way but then there's a
lot of habits that don't serve us and
and so a person really wants to set a
vision of the future whatever that is
and they just have to agree that in
order to arrive at that Vision they have
to change in order to get there someone
said to me that there's a certain type
of behavior pattern that we can't change
they said when we get trauma under the
age of 10 things that happen at a very
early age some of those things cannot be
changed and then there's things that
happen later in life that can be rewire
and
changed is that true are there some
traumas Behavior patterns that just
appear to be too stubborn and too
resistant to
change if you ask me that question just
a few years ago I probably would have a
different answer than I do today because
if you look at a lot of the work uh that
we're studying in terms of human change
and human
transformation um we've seen people with
really difficult pasts really brutal
pasts that were abused and traumatized
at a very early age um and
then repeated traumas that took place in
people's lives and they had night
terrors and and uh they uh couldn't be
in relationships they had social anxiety
uh they had a lot of health conditions
we've seen them completely change uh
completely change to be happy people
again to to free themselves from the
past and
so I would never put a
limitation on change because I just
don't think uh you can really predict
that I think many people that are
learning how to change uh and they
understand what they're doing and why
they're doing it and the how gets easier
I think for the most part people can
change all kinds of things and when they
do change uh our research shows that
their brain changes their heart rate
changes their gene expression changes
there's thousands of metabolites that
are being released into their
bloodstream that weren't their prior U
there's a host of different changes that
take place biologically that kind of
support the person's transformation
is there a specific
transformation that sticks in your
mind as being the most is the clearest
evidence that you should never write off
um someone's ability to transform wow
um I'm so pleased to tell you that uh my
beliefs have been
challenged uh just in the last two years
in
witnessing so many different changes in
people's Health that I I never knew was
even
possible uh you know everything from
stage four cancers that were in a very
progress state that metastasized to
organs and tissues and bones in the body
a complete reversal in uh that uh in
that health condition not once not twice
not three times uh we've seen it many
times uh we've seen people that were
blind uh that have been dead F that that
have ALS that have Lupus that have MS
that have Parkinson's disease that have
spinal cord injuries that have strokes
PTSD myasthenia gravis cystic fibrosis
muscular distrophy
uh we had a woman that had her thyroid
removed surgically removed and I know
this is difficult even for me to accept
uh and grew a new thyroid back you know
we have the medical evidence for that so
I don't know uh any longer what the
limit is I think there's something
really cool happening in the world when
uh people believe in themselves and when
you believe in yourself you have to
believe in possibility when you believe
in possibility you have to believe in
yourself so uh when
somebody uh has the opportunity and I
think a
story is uh there's no there everybody
loves a story there's nothing better
than a story and when someone stands on
a stage in front of 2,000
people and talks about
their um journey to heal themselves from
a chronic health condition and they it's
not um always pretty they lose things
they lose family they sometimes lose
their careers they get sick before they
get better and you see this person's
persistence and you see that they were
not doing the work uh their inward work
to heal they were doing the work to
change and if they understood if they
truly changed that their biology should
change and they were um uncompromising
every day in showing up for themselves
and staying conscious of their
unconscious self and and then
reprogramming themsel in some way and
they tell that story it's the
four-minute mile it's somebody breaking
through a level of Consciousness or
unconsciousness and the collective
that's
observing the example of
truth they're actually relating with
that person in a way that causes them to
examine possibility differently and when
you become conscious of a new
possibility a change in Consciousness is
a change in Awareness right so now it's
in the collective and lo and behold it's
not uncommon we just had this happen in
our weeklong event in Denver just uh a
little over a week ago two weeks
ago and we had six people stand up out
of a wheelchair at by the end of the
event now I wasn't expecting that but
one uh person that had Ms in the middle
of the week had a very profound
experience very profound experience and
a professional athlete NFL football
player and um stood up and he stood up
for the audience and when he stood up he
said I thought I was going to a Yoga
Retreat I thought my brother was taking
me to a yoga retreat I had no idea what
we were doing here and then he said I
just I just never loved
myself and it was his act of change that
somehow changed his health condition he
somehow
upregulated genes in different ways
suppressed the genes for Ms and somehow
he was more mobile he was walking uh by
the end of the event and he was the
magic number one and when everybody saw
that and they C the audience was excited
we started seeing other people have a
similar experience now that possibility
is becoming more of a reality for people
so I would always I never limit what
could actually happen but I can tell you
that what an amazing time right now uh
to witness uh people really uh doing The
Uncommon when you recited that story I
could see the emotion in your face as
you say it and I can only imagine with
the information that you have and the
beliefs you have about healing change
transformation the sense of urgency you
must carry and the sense of like
responsibility almost I guess you must
carry knowing knowing what's possible
yeah well um um it I I do feel
responsible for always keeping the
information based in science and as pure
as possible I feel it's really important
to do the research that we're doing I
mean we've we've studied
so much uh from a scientific standpoint
the process of change and the process of
transformation and what meditation
actually can do for a person in terms of
their biology and and some of the
changes that we're seeing just in seven
days um my responsibility really is to
give people my greatest understanding of
the truth and numerous opportunities to
experience it nothing more you know
there is a way to inspire people into
possibility
and so they we combine different models
of science whether it's quantum physics
or Neuroscience or neuroendocrinology or
psychon neuroimmunology the Mind Body
Connection epigenetics
electromagnetism all of these Sciences
allow people to understand themselves
better and if knowledge is powered
knowledge about yourself is
self-empowerment you can Empower people
to do something with it so the more you
understand what you're doing in the
process of Chang the more you understand
why you're doing it as I said the how
gets easier
so we now know that if you give people
sound scientific information and that is
the Contemporary language of
mysticism and they can learn that
information they're basically making new
circuits in their brain that's what
learning is learning is forging new
synaptic connections but if you don't
review what you learn if you don't
repeat it it's so much easier to forget
it than to remember it so you got to
repeat it over and over again so we
allow people in our workshops to then
begin to turn uh and teach it back to
somebody they have to really explain it
if they can't explain it it's not wired
in their brain and they're going to
something's going to be left the
conjecture to Superstition to Dogma to
spirituality and and that's not that's
not the result we want we want them to
use science as that model and if they
can explain that model and remind
themselves what they've learned
reproduce the same level of Mind nerve
cells that fire together wire together
so they begin to install the
neurological Hardware in their brain by
teaching others yeah exactly so that
they are prepared for an
experience so then if that information
is installed in their brain that
philosophy that theory uh that knowledge
and information and now they can
remember it and they have that model of
understanding and they understand what
they're doing and why they're doing it
if we can set up the conditions in the
environment and give them the proper
instruction if they can get their
behaviors to match their intentions
if they can get their actions equal to
their thoughts if they can get their
mind and body working together they're
going to have a new experience now
experience enriches circuitry in the
brain that's what experiences does the
moment those neurons begin to string
into place though another part of the
brain makes a chemical and that chemical
is called a feeling or an emotion and
the moment you feel unlimited the moment
you feel grateful the moment you feel
empowered the moment you feel whole now
you're teaching your body chemically to
understand what your mind has
intellectually understood the
information is just not in the brain now
the information now is literally in the
body and now you're embodying the truth
of that knowledge of that philosophy of
that
theory so then you're teaching your body
and and instructing your body chemically
to understand what your mind is
intellectually understood okay so then
that information that's coming as a new
experience is changing your biology in
some way and we've actually shown this
so then if you you've done it
once then it means you should be able to
do it again and the idea is to be able
to repeat an experience and if you can
repeat it over and over again both
neurologically and chemically
neurochemically you can condition your
mind and body to begin to work as one
and when you can do it so many times
that your body now knows how to do it
better than your conscious mind it's
inate in you so I want to map out this
process so that I make sure I understand
it starts with the neurology which I I I
I heard is a a thought which you then
ingrain in your mind by teaching it to
someone else is that accurate well first
thing you have to do is you got to give
people information yeah and science is
probably the closest to the truth in
terms of
information and so when your brain is
exposed to information and you're
present and you're paying attention that
neurons begin to connect that's what
learning is learning is forging new
synaptic connections the noble prize
research kandell in the year 2000 his re
the researcher said that if you learned
one bit of information and you paid
attention that information for about an
hour you would double the number of
Connections in your brain as a result of
your interaction with that information
but if you don't review it if you don't
repeat it if you don't to think about it
the circuit's prune apart right so if
learning is making new synaptic
connections and remembering is
maintaining and sustaining them so it's
so much easier to forget get this
information then to remember it so you
learn it once I got a person's head
nodding then they turn the person next
to and say let me try this out let me
try this out and me see if I can repeat
it and so between the two of them they
exchange that information and they start
to build a model of understanding ah I
understand I got that okay then we
advance the information a little bit
more and they they're adding new
Stitches into the three-dimensional
tapestry of their gray matter and they
have to remind themselves what they've
learned reproduce that same level of
Mind mind is the brain in action
as you install those neurological
circuits in your brain then now you're
prepared it's the Forerunner to the
experience you're prepared for the
experience so give the proper
instruction get your body involved get
involved in the process the experience
then causes circuits to become more
enriched that's what experience does and
then it makes a chemical and that
chemical is called a feeling or an
emotion and the stronger the emotion you
feel from the experience the more you
remember it and what is that experience
what abundance Health wholeness IAL
experience success a new relationship a
new
career um a new life whatever the
person's whatever whatever that Vision
that person wants to arrive at in the
future and to actually go from the
thought of that Vision to the actual
experience of it and the distance
between that thought and that experience
is called time so if we can teach people
to shorten the distance between the
thought of what they want and the
experience of having it
um then they they start believing more
that they're the creator of their life
what would you say to somebody that
doesn't think thoughts matter that much
I would say
95% of the World Plus or maybe more 99%
of the World Plus sees thoughts as
something that we are you know it's my
head talking it's me talking in my head
and as long as I don't act on those
thoughts they're
inconsequential I would I would say then
that's their truth is it their truth I
don't know but for for me my thoughts do
matter I think every thought that you
have makes a chemical and you can have
thoughts that make you feel good and
thoughts that make you feel bad and and
I think that if
90% of the thoughts that we think are
the same thoughts as the day before the
same thoughts lead to the same choices
the same choices lead to the same
behaviors the same behaviors will create
the same experiences and the same
experiences produce the very same
emotions and those same emotions
influence a person's very same thoughts
and their biology their neuros circuitry
their neurochemistry their hormones and
even their gene expression stays the
same because they're staying the same
there's nothing wrong with
that but I do think that if you think
differently and you learn new
information and you have new thoughts if
you can make new choices and demonstrate
new behaviors and create new experiences
and arrive at new goals and feel new
emotions I would say that's
Evolution and I think that people really
really secretly believe in themselves
elves on some level and and I think
being defined by a vision of the future
or really always always dreaming of
another great experience I think is a
great reason to wake up in the morning
I've had lots of conversations with very
smart people on this podcast from
multiple disciplines you know
psychiatrists psychologists athletes
Health practitioners and they've given
me such great advice on which is
irrefutable scientific advice on so many
areas of my life and for some reason
there's still areas of my life that I
still can't act upon that advice and I
think probably for most of my listeners
who've heard great advice on this
podcast and they think yes that's who I
want to be I have an intention to stop
eating sugar at 1 1:00 a.m. at night or
I have an intention to become organized
or to be this kind of friend or partner
they have the information right what
there's something stood in the way of me
doing something about that information
on a regular basis yeah well I can give
you a few answers for that
unfortunately it normally takes crisis
trauma disease diagnosis betrayal loss
the person has to reach that lowest
denominator where nothing's making that
feeling go away has to well not they
don't have to but this is human this is
The Human Condition this is the moment
where they don't feel like returning the
texts they don't feel like going to
dinner and seeing the same people they
don't feel like
um watching the same television show any
longer the sports car the Wardrobe the
none of that is making this feeling go
away this is a a moment of Reckoning for
the soul and this is really when you
could actually see yourself Through The
Eyes of someone else because you don't
feel like yourself anymore and that's
the moment where people begin to change
they can see how they've been thinking
they can notice how they've been acting
they could pay attention or become aware
of how they've been feeling for the last
20 years and that that idea in in
Neuroscience is called metacognition
that's the moment you're no longer the
program now what we believe and what
we've seen and what I think is much
better approach
is um being defined by a vision of the
future and if you
understood that you could actually
elevate your state without anyone or
anything every single day and hold
whatever that intention of your future
is and it takes a coherent brain to do
that and feel the motion of your future
before it happens that is you know you
can't wait for your wealth to feel
success you can't or abundance you can't
wait for your new relationship to feel
love you can't wait for the mystical
experience to feel awe or your healing
to feel whole or grateful that's kind of
the old model of reality of cause and
effect waiting for something out there
uh to change to take away this emptiness
this lack that I feel in here you teach
people then they could elevate their
state and we teach that model through
meditation and they can combine that
clear intention with an elevated emotion
and teach them how to make that heart of
theirs more
coherent if they do that properly then
they'll live their life feeling like
their future has already happened now
from that elevated State instead of that
self-limited state they can become as
conscious of that unconscious self as
they could if they were at that limited
and and being defined by that vision of
the future getting up every day inspired
by it and not letting any person any
circumstance anything in our life remove
us from that Vision that would be a day
well- lived so then most people then
they have that vision of the future but
they give up on that Vision because in
order for them to arrive at that Vision
they have to do something they have to
think differently they have to act
differently they have to feel
differently and it's so much easier to
make the same Choice every single day
and the hardest part about change is not
making the same Choice as you did the
day before and the moment you decide to
make a different Choice you're going to
feel uncomfortable because you're
stepping from the known into the
unknown so some people would rather
cling to their
self-pity than take a chance and
possibility they'd rather tell the story
of their past instead of telling the
story of their future they' rather
believe in their past instead of believe
in their future uh it's so much more
important though to romance your future
instead of romance your past and I think
if people understood that they could
actually arrive at
it I think many people have done this
already in their life I think everybody
at least once in their life has done
something great and when they did
something great they just made up their
mind and they made a decision in that
moment to do something or to change with
such firm
intention that the amplitude of energy
in making that choice caused their body
to respond to their mind that the choice
that they were making to change became a
moment in time that they would never
forget and the stronger the emotion they
felt in order to change the more they
remembered the choice and we could say
then that they're giving their body a
taste of the future emotionally and
they're literally aligning to that
Destiny we discovered that if you keep
doing that every
day somehow you'll arrive at that
Destiny and your biology will literally
begin to change to look like you're
living in a different life what are some
of the biggest myths relating to
behavior change and I guess character
and personality change um that hold
people
back I probably belief I think in so
many ways that a belief is a unconscious
process a belief is a thought you keep
thinking over and over again until it's
hardwired in your
brain and most beliefs are based on past
experiences and so many people have a
belief about something that has to
change in order for them to arrive uh at
a new place in their life and what we
discovered a lot of times with people in
this work is
that they they when they say for example
they were healings of a health condition
sometimes they would do their
meditations three times in one day and I
asked them why three times and they said
because I stopped
believing uh and when I caught myself no
longer believing in it I had to sit down
and change my belief again in other
words they had to get up believing more
in their future instead of believing
Less in it and they have to change their
state of being to do
that so I think that that's a limitation
I also think that consciously we're
always waiting for something out there
in our life to change so that we can
change or feel the relief of the lack of
what we don't
have and I do think that's kind of a
limited model of reality I think when
you start changing inside of you and you
start seeing the changes happening
outside of you you go from being a
victim in your life to being a creator
of your life and and I think that when
that occurs then all of a sudden it's no
longer a have to it's something that you
want to do you don't you actually don't
want the magic to end in your life so
now you become a work in progress by
investing in
yourself when you invest in yourself you
invest in your future so there is
probably a chronic
disbelief that many of us have that
we're not creators of our life uh and
that only when we get the parking space
or something good happens to us do we
believe that we're the creator of our
life but imagine a world where everybody
actually took responsibility in being
the creator of their life and no longer
the victim of their life I think we
would see a dramatic shift in
Consciousness that makes people feel
uncomfortable this idea of personal
responsibility it's quite a it's almost
become quite a controversial
controversial idea the idea that we are
the creator of Our Lives because then I
have to accept responsibility for all
the bad things that happened Dave dumped
me I got fired from
work uh someone bumped into my car and
it hurt my neck well maybe maybe that
happened by default
maybe that happened by not creating
maybe you were just left to the
randomness of reality that that maybe
you're not creating and the fact that
you're not creating you're you're left
to the effects of your environment
actually controlling you controlling
your feelings and thoughts and by
creating what you mean by creating is in
well well if you intentional if you woke
up every morning and you truly made time
to to think like this
okay if my personality creates my
personal reality and my personality is
made up of how I think how I act and how
I
feel if I want to create a new personal
reality a new life I'm going to have to
change my personality and most people
try to create a new reality a new
personal reality as the same personality
and it doesn't work we literally have to
become someone else so if you said
okay let me not default and go
unconscious to that 95% of who I am
that's programmed let me become so
conscious of the way I think let me
become so aware of how I'm going to act
today let me decide what emotions keep
me connected to my past and bring me to
a lower level lower level of energy let
me not go
unconscious and then if you said okay A
belief is just the thought I keep
thinking over and over again what
thoughts do I want to fire and wire in
my brain and with with attention and
with
intention to begin to familiarize
yourself with a new way of thinking
meditation means to become familiar
with if you keep firing and wiring those
circuits you're going to begin to
install the hardware repeat it enough
times and it becomes a software program
that could be the new voice in your head
that says I can it is
possible if you said okay when did I
fall from grace yesterday when did I
when did I lose it oh my gosh it was
with at work work with my co-workers
with my ex with my enemy with the news
with
traffic acting this way is not going to
make me happy if I had another
opportunity another opportunity how
would I do it if you could close your
eyes and rehearse in your mind mentally
how you're going to behave in certain
situations I'll give you a specific one
anyone so I'll give you the specific one
where late late at night on occasion
I've eaten things things that I really
regret eating Al also another one that
I'm I'm trying to work hard on is I can
be very messy with when I travel so my
my hotel room can look like a mess and I
don't like that about myself and I don't
know why I do it but it's almost like
you talk about being unconscious I'm
clearly not thinking about it but that's
part of the problem and it's the same
with the bloody sugar midnight eating
ordering things that are and then
feeling instant guilt 10 seconds after
I've put it in my mouth well well it may
be that on some
level well you could actually be
addicted to the guilt not to the
sugar and so you you return to the same
emotional
state that allows that action to reoccur
so if you said let me decide how I am
going to act what I'm not going to do
and you rehearsed it the research on
mental rehearsal says your brain will
look like you already did it that you'll
be so present the brain won't know the
difference between what you're imagining
and what is real the brain will begin to
change to look like the experience has
already happened now you're priming your
brain for that behavior keep rehearsing
it rehearsing it how so give me well so
I mentally mentally rehearsing mental
rehearsal is one of these great ideas in
Neuroscience where you can actually
install circuits in your brain right so
everybody has done this musicians do it
they're playing a song in their mind all
the time athletes do it they're always
going over their moves uh dancers do it
actors do it uh so many people rehearse
mentally what they're about to do and
when they do that they actually Prime
their brain they actually can change
their brain and change their body just
by thought alone physiologically change
it physiologically change you can take a
group of people that never played the
piano before and divide them into two
different groups and do functional brain
scans on both groups one group
they'll come for two hours a day for 5
days and they'll practice these
one-handed scales and chords now you
learn something new you make new
Connections in your brain you get some
instruction you get your body involved
when you get your body involved you're
going to have an experience you pay
attention to what you're doing and you
repeat it over and over again nerve
cells that fire together wire together
you're going to begin to install new
circuits in the opposite side of your
brain that's that's
common you do the scan at the end you
see those actual physical changes it's
you take those people uh the other group
and you ask them to close their eyes
without lifting a finger have them
mental rehearse those scales and chords
and at the end of five days they grow
the same amount of circuits in their
brain as the people who actually
physically demonstrated the act in other
words they were so present with what
they were doing the brain did not know
the difference between the real life
experience and what they were Imagining
the brain was physically changing to
look like they already experienced it
they already did it so now you take
those people people never played the
piano before they just been mentally
rehearsing for two hours a day for 5
days you set up in front of a piano and
they could actually play those scals and
cords why because they Prime their brain
for that behavior so then if you're
going to prime your brain for a new
Behavior whether you're the CEO of a
company whether you're a
parent uh whether you're learning
something the more you rehearse it
mentally the more you prime your brain
and body for the act so you could
actually practice rehearsing how you're
going to change in your life and if you
keep doing it enough times your
behaviors will match your intentions
automatically because you have the Mind
installed to do it if you don't have the
Mind installed to do it you'll go back
to the same past Behavior so I play
through that
scenario of making the decision
differently exactly and rehearse it in
your mind until it feels right till you
feel like I could actually do that and
go from start to finish without losing
your attention and so that it gets
easier each time you do it it makes
sense then you're you'll you'll actually
do it and then if you said
okay enough of this
guilt i' I've felt enough of it I don't
like feeling that way I could actually
break the conditioning of that emotion
in my body can I condition my body can I
teach my body to feel something
differently what would be the feeling
that I want to feel if I was able to do
it would it be worth would it be
self-love would it be Freedom would it
be Joy let me teach my body emotionally
what a future could actually feel like
before it happens if you keep doing it
over and over again you're going to
start making more of those chemicals and
it's become easier for you to do it it's
going to become familiar to you and
that's exactly what meditation is to
become familiar with an old self to know
thyself become so conscious of that
unconscious self that you don't go
unconscious to that self and how many
times do we have to forget until we stop
forgetting and start remembering that's
the moment of change what thoughts do I
want to find fire and wire in my brain
let me become familiar with those what
behaviors do I want to demonstrate what
would greatness do what would love do
and actually rehearse a greater a
greater way rehearse it enough times so
that you could actually step into that
footprint teach your body emotionally
that there's another way to feel and do
it over and over again it'll become
familiar to you and so the model of
change is unlearning and relearning it's
breaking the habit of the old self and
Reinventing a new self it's pruning
synaptic connections and sprouting new
connection C it's uniring and unwiring
reiring and rewiring deprogramming and
reprogramming losing your mind and
creating a new one
unmoral changes if they immerse
themselves into the experience and what
do those biological changes look
like well um so we run week-long events
um around the world and I think it's so
important to do events uh in person with
Community uh because it's a flock it's a
herd it's a school um it's a
collective and so uh that exact process
in seven days uh we uh take people
through a very immersive experience and
we do functional brain scans or fmis or
quantitative eegs before they start the
event and then we at the end of seven
days we look at their brains at the end
of seven days and there are dramatic
changes in the way their brain works
very significant changes some of them
are really outstanding changes we uh put
uh teach people how to create more heart
coherence when you feel anger when you
feel frustration when you feel
impatience when you feel resentment your
heart beats out of order when you feel
gratitude when you have kindness and
Care You Feel Love For Life your heart
beats in a more orderly fashion you can
actually train somebody to get good at
feeling that way and we we use that and
we see people at the end of seven days
be able to regulate uh their heart much
better and it's a function of really how
soon or how slow we
age we take blood and we measure
2,882 different metabolites in in a
person's blood and at the end of s days
we measure again and I can tell you that
if you're a novice
meditator really never meditated before
kind of your first event uh and you go
through that 7-Day process at the end of
seven days there are so many biological
changes that are taking place in the
collective in the community not just one
not just two the majority of people and
I mean a significant majority of people
suggesting that their body literally is
living in a new environment in in a new
life and there are chemicals in their
bloodstream in terms of
information that wasn't there prior to
the event in other words
some way without taking any drug without
any taking any exogenous
substance um without changing their diet
without changing their lifestyle in any
other way except going through this
process eating the same foods that they
typically eat that at the end of seven
days there's chemistry there's biology
that suggests that somehow their biology
is changing
significantly um we measure gene
expression uh I can tell you that you
can change your Gene expression in 7
Days uh we measure the microbiome and um
once again 7 days there are dramatic
changes in the microbiome uh and the
mind somehow is making uh significant
and effective changes in our in our body
so um our research is pretty outstanding
because um an 7-Day uh intervention uh
that's producing these effects uh
there's there's not a whole lot of drugs
that that are as effective
and we've discovered
that the nervous system makes a pharmacy
of chemicals right now that works better
than any drug that's what we've
discovered and it's all within
you I am a
fixer in my friendship groups and what I
mean by that is I'm someone who probably
over involves them themselves in trying
to help friends change stuff which gift
and a curse often times a curse but um I
often get because I love someone and
they're close to me and I want the best
for them when when I see that they are
experiencing a recurring pattern of
behavior or habit um that is causing
them unhappiness loneliness to miss the
goals they have in their life of
becoming a you know a husband or a wife
or a partner whatever it might be I have
a growing sense of um
frustration because and I and that
sometimes exerts it it's that sometimes
manifests itself as trying to you know
fix and help and give advice and change
them you must experience that in a
different way you're much smarter than
me you must experience that in a
different way when you meet people that
you can see having these recurring
patterns of behavior and when you see
that in them has there any has there any
ever been frustration on your part have
you ever been frustrated that change
hasn't happened in someone that you
loved God I you know I think it's I
think it's such a noble act to change
and I and I understand how hard it is to
change uh I understand that process
so I think the greatest thing that I
could ever do for someone is to show
them what change looks like it's so much
more profound than anything that I could
ever
say um and I would never offer my
opinion to them I would love them
unconditionally because I maybe see a
part of myself uh that I've changed and
I understand how hard it is to change or
or I understand that they'll they're
going to have their moment uh when
they're ready to change and so I think
it's I think it's really interesting
because what I've learned over the years
is that no new
information can enter the nervous system
that's not equal to the person's
emotional state you can give them the
answer the right answer to the problem
and they won't hear it because it's not
relevant equal to the emotion that
they're
experiencing what we've learned is a you
take people in just just say seven days
just cross the river of change go from
the old self to the new self immerse
yourself fully into it break free from
the chains of those emotions that keep
you anchored to the Past overcome those
habits and behaviors that keep you
programmed into a predictable future um
overcome um all those aspects of your
beliefs that keep you stuck in a certain
state in terms of how you're thinking in
those hardwired perceptions 7even days
break free and and normally the person
has the answer uh to their own question
I think that's when it becomes really
relevant when you have your own Insight
your own Epiphany when it's your own
truth because you've you've worked to
get Beyond it people when they analyze
themselves or analyze their life within
some disturbing emotion when we looked
at the real time brain scans we saw that
they were actually making their brain
worse they were driving their brain
further out of balance overthinking
overanalyzing uh and
so when you analyze something within an
emotion and emotion is a is a record of
the past so you're thinking in the past
the solution could never be there free
the person from that emotion and of
course they they see they they see it
from a greater level of
Consciousness for all those people
listening right now that are like me
that try and
fix because through I mean through what
they think of as love may maybe be I'm
doing it for other reasons
but what what could they do to be a
better ally or friend or partner to that
individual B based on everything you've
said that maybe they need their own
moment or you know their emotional
system isn't in regulation with their
information God anytime we want to do
anybody a great service is to help them
out of their emotional state I mean it's
not a lecture that's going to help them
come on let's go do something come on
let's go just get them doing something
just breaking themselves out of that
state it's not like the answer it's that
you they have to change their state to
get the answer so if I were to do
anything
I would want to help them shorten their
emotional reaction to get them get
beyond the emotion whatever that is and
I wouldn't be a lecture it would be
something fun that we did or something
unusual that we did or just trying
something just let's just do
something and I think I think showing
people what what what love looks like
show them what Joy looks like show them
what happiness looks like I think I
think people notice that I think I think
they pay attention to that it gives them
permission uh to do the
same so
um maybe just show up as um the person
you would want to be around if you were
feeling that
way when you look at the state of the
world at the moment and the direction of
travel the trajectory of you know
technology and the way we're living our
lives and the decisions we're making at
a collective level what are the things
that most concern
you well I always ask myself is it
getting better or is it getting worse
you know and I I think um
in my lifetime I don't think I've ever
experienced the world as it is today
just with so many variations of so many
things uh and I question the information
uh that I'm
receiving uh and I think that we need
some type of intervention uh as a
species we need we we need a change uh
uh we need an intervention in some
way you question the information you're
receiving from where and what kind of in
intervention are you suggesting I just
don't know that the information that I
that I am exposed to or information that
people are exposed to is the truth I
just question that these days and and
there because you can you get so many
you can get so many degrees of it and so
many uh and I and I don't know if it's
uh based in altruism you know for the
for the goodness of human beings or or
for self-interests and I and I think
that's a I think people are waking up
more to the understanding that something
has to change you know for us to really
survive as a species and what are the
symptoms
of the cultural disease that you're
talking about what are they a lack of
connection uh you know you know we're in
3D reality you know connecting communing
cooperating uh uh uh creating I think
those are things that um I think if you
keep people in in survival and you keep
them in fear and you keep them at War
and you keep them angry and you keep
them in pain and you keep them confused
and you can control their attention um
by controlling their
emotions um I think I think um we're
going to you know we may not make it you
know as as a species but I think that
when people Truly Come Together in in in
an elevated State I think it's
Collective networks of observers that
determine reality and I don't think it's
the number of people I think it's the
most coherent uh in heart and brain that
begin to produce effects so the coming
of a new Consciousness um has to be a
collective it's not one person it's a
collective uh group of people and and I
believe that you get enough people
collectively coming together that we can
hopefully uh steer it in a different
direction hopefully yeah how about you
are you optimistic I am I'm optimistic
because I think people by
Nature are good I think there's goodness
in human beings and I have the privilege
of traveling around the world and I see
that and it transcends countries and
cultures and races and gender it
transcends diet it transcends all that
stuff uh it's just when people are happy
with themselves and in love with life um
I think I think they're natur natural
tendency is to give and I think we're
wired to do that when we're not in
survival when we're not in survival when
you use this word survival are you
talking about the the fight or flight
state that we um many of us live in yeah
the an say I would say that living in
stress is living in survival and stress
is when your brain and body are knocked
out of
homeostasis stress is when your brain
and body are knocked out of balance the
stress response is what the body
innately does to return itself back to
balance
the problem is is that if you keep
turning on that fight ORF flight system
you keep turning on that emergency
system um you'll actually cause people
to stay out of balance and that
inbalance becomes the new balance and
they're headed for some type of disease
some type of breakdown no organism can
tolerate emergency mode for an extended
period of time and when you're in
survival and that primitive system is
switched on it's really about the self
uh when you're in survival you have to
take care of yourself so um the emotions
of anger and hostility and aggression
and competition and frustration and
resentment and envy and jealousy and
insecurity and fear and anxiety and
hopelessness and powerlessness and
depression and pain and suffering guilt
and shame are all derived from the
hormones of stress and psychology calls
them normal human States Of
Consciousness those are Altered States
Of Consciousness and when we're in that
state when we're living in
survival we experience separation we we
divide in
in in a lot of ways and so there's
biology that goes along with that and um
the hormones of stress heighten the
senses and cause us to become
materialists and and now when we're in
lack or separation we force outcomes we
control outcomes we fight for outcomes
we compete for outcomes we manipulate
outcomes in a lot of ways we we turn
into more of a primitive self
so hard um to change that especially
when you don't have enough money or you
just lost your job or you just ended a
relationship
or your best friend past uh it's really
hard um to move Beyond those emotional
states um and so I think that that
teaching people um how to change those
emotional states and move out of those
are really important and um 75 to 90% of
every person that goes to a health care
facility in the Western World goes in
because because of psychological or
emotional stress that's eight or nine
out of 10 and and emotional stress and
psychological stress are the ones that
tend to be the most harmful because if
it's not T-Rex that's chasing you but
it's your coworker in the next cubicle
what was once very adaptive becomes very
maladaptive and and the rush of those
adrenal
hormones become kind of addictive to
people and they use the problems they
use the conditions in their life to
reaffirm their addiction to that emotion
they need their enemy to feel hatred and
and if their enemy died they they'd
still feel hatred or they'd find another
one uh they need the bad relationship
they need the be bad job in order to
feel and that's why it's hard to change
and people become addicted to the life
they don't even
like and so if you can turn on the
stress response just by thought Alone by
thinking about your problems and that's
the truth you can become addicted to
your own thoughts and if the long-term
effects of the hormones of stress push
the genetic buttons that create disease
your thoughts can make you sick then the
question is if your thoughts could make
you sick and your thoughts make you well
and we're actually discovering that
that's absolutely possible so then
teaching people then a little bit about
how to manage their emotional state and
self-regulate I think is a great gift
for people because when they begin to
break an addiction to any emotion or the
conditioning of any emotion there's
going to be Cravings that go on just
like uh just like any atct there you
know and and you've many people overdose
and many people have bad trips and and
so when they start changing and the
body's craving uh those familiar
emotions the body starts signaling the
brain you know of memories or to think
certain ways and to make certain choices
do certain things crave certain
experiences just to feel of that same
emotion and people say well this feels
right no that feels familiar that really
feels familiar and and many people will
tell the story of why they feel that way
based on some past experience and it's
usually not in the recent past it's
usually many years ago like a toxic
relationship or something whatever that
is and
so they're basically saying I had an
event in my life and since that event
I'm still living by the same emotion and
I haven't been able to change and
they'll tell the story of that past and
in Psychology the latest research on
memory shows that 50% of that story
isn't even the
truth they're they're they're making it
up because they don't have the same
brain as they had then and so then
people people are reliving a miserable
life they never even had just to excuse
themselves from changing they embellish
the story so that it sounds really hard
to change so what is it what is that
point then for a person when they say
the only
person that that this emotion of hatred
or anger or frustration or resentment
the only person that this is hurting is
me because those those chemicals are
downregulating genes and creating
disease and a person finally really
realizes that and they really decide to
change when they overcome the emotion
the memory without the emotion is called
wisdom and that's the name of the game
and three-dimensional reality now
they're ready for a new experience it's
not it's not reliving the past you don't
need to you don't need to talk about it
all you need to do is overcome the
emotion when you overcome the emotion
you're free from the past you can see it
from a greater level of Consciousness
and that's when a person so many times
when they truly change they'll say this
we've seen it over and over again they
reach that point where they finally
break through and they and some of them
have had some really difficult pasts
they'll say I would not want to change
one thing in my past because it brought
me to this moment that's the moment the
past no longer exists and they can look
at their
betrayers and see it what all had to
happen for that moment and now they're
they're free they they no longer belong
to the past they belong to the Future
I've never heard the concept or idea of
being addicted to a negative emotion
people talk to me about being addicted
to dopamine and pleasure and you know
and all those things and you know like
masturbation and sugar and but the
thought of being addicted to a negative
emotion it's what you said to me earlier
about the guilt well well think about
this
what do people do when they when they
feel an emotion what do they do they
rely on something outside of them to
make that emotion go away so whether
it's the masturbation or the pornography
or the gambling or the shopping or the
sugar or the whatever it's all because
they're trying to make that feeling go
away and they're using something outside
of them so then there is some emotion
that the person is regulating that's why
they're doing that that they're doing
that right so so change the emotional
state and it makes sense then the need
to do it
diminishes which is not doesn't seem to
be very easy to do change my emotional
state well again I think
um if you if you
understood what you were doing and why
you were doing it just like learning
anything if you if you understood a
formula I think it wouldn't be as hard
as you think it is I mean because there
is a way to
change and step one in that process of
change is new information always it's
the Forerunner to any
experience without the information we
doubt that it's
possible and that again that the
information and the science removes the
doubt I've I was doing some research
recently about um why people change
their beliefs and why they don't change
their beliefs and some beliefs they're
more susceptible to take on some
information they're more susceptible to
take on one of the things I read about
was when they believe the source another
thing I read about was when they when
it's good news so in studies where they
say to someone you're more attractive
according to the public than you believe
they're likely to shift rather than
finding out they're less attractive and
also things like Health you're more
healthy than you thought you were
genetically they're more likely to shift
a belief the nature of our beliefs and
the nature of belief change um I I was
writing in in in my book about how um
looking in the mirror and telling
yourself something like some of the sort
of modern day manifestation Community
belief doesn't seem to work just looking
in the mirror and telling myself that
I'm beautiful and Rich and successful
and Powerful doesn't seem to be an
effective way to cause actual belief
change do you agree or disagree with
this idea that you can look in the
mirror and say something to
yourself when when we study belief and
the change in belief
uh I want I'll answer it on two levels
Stephen the first level is that in order
for a person to change a belief or
perception about themselves and their
life the majority of those people made a
decision with such firm intention that
the amplitude of that decision carried a
level of energy that was greater than
the hardwired programs in their brain
and the emotional conditioning their
body as I said earlier their body
literally responded to their mind the
choice that they were making
became a moment in time they would never
forget they'll tell you where they were
what time of day it was who they were
with when they made up their mind to
change it became a long-term memory and
the stronger the emotion we feel the
more altered we are inside of us the
more we remember that choice that's why
we need pain sometimes that's when you
said when you painted yourself into a
corner and you said this is it I don't
care how I feel
body I don't care how long it takes time
I don't care what people think I don't
care what's going on on my life
environment I'm going to do this and you
made up your mind the moment you felt
that emotion you were aligning to a new
future and to change is to be greater
than your body to be greater than your
environment and to be greater than time
and so when a person comes out of the
resting state because your body is
trillions of cells 70 trillion cells and
they're all spying on your brain and if
you were sitting there and and you said
nine out of 10 times I'm going to fake
standing up one time I'm actually going
to stand up before you ever made that
conscious decision your body is so
precognitive it already knows when
you're going to stand up because it's
got to release a certain amount of
adrenaline so the same volume of your
blood goes to your brain so if you're
sitting on the couch with a remote
control and you got your cell phone here
and your iPad here and your computer
here and your dog here and your beer
here and the big TV there and you're
eating your popcorn and and you say you
know I I think
um I'm going to change tomorrow you what
do you think your precognitive body is
going to say relax he's lying again he's
not he's not willing to he's not willing
to Signal the body it's time to ride you
know it's not there's no signal to the
body and so making that choice to change
your state of being with a clear
intention and elevated emotion actually
changes your state to believe in that
future more than you believe in your
past keep it up keep keep doing it
that's a big explosion in the field
that's important that's a change in
energy and nobody changes until they
change their energy and when they change
their energy they change their life so
then you make up your mind to do that
and all of a sudden you have that
synchronicity you have that Serendipity
you have that coincidence and all of a
sudden you're saying hey that worked
something I did inside of me produced an
effect outside of me I'm going to pay
attention to what I did I'm going to do
it again let's try it again let's the
experiment continue you do it again and
then you say Well when did I stop
disbelieving oh my God stopped
disbelieving when I ran into that person
we had that conversation and oh my God I
I returned back to my old belief again
okay next time that happens I'm going to
this is what I'll do you rehearse it in
so your
evolution in your belief and self
changes as well so then so many people
second point will actually say this you
know I read the philosophy I understand
the knowledge I understand what it means
to change I understand the power of
meditation I saw the testimonial I saw
people heal I believe it's the truth I
just didn't believe it could work for me
this is a big moment this is a moment
where you step out of the bleachers and
you got to get on the playing field
that's the person who says if this works
and I believe it works I got to prove it
to myself I got to actually I got to
actually prove it to myself that I
believe that it could work for
me and some of them show up every day
for a year and never miss their work
never miss their meditation a whole year
and changing from the old self to the
new self they were doing their
meditations to change not to heal they
were doing their meditations to change
and when they changed they healed they
did their meditation sometimes three
times a day because they stopped
believing they stopped disbelieving and
they were like I defaulted why because
I'm feeling the emotion of my past some
stray thought some response to someone
or something caused me to feel that I
forgot I'm back to the emotion that's
familiar and I can't believe in that
future I'm believing in my past let me
sit down and change my state of being
again and get up believing in my future
again and sometimes they had to do it
three times in one day and when they
understood that's the environment that
signals the gene that's
epigenetics and the end product of an
experience in the environment is an
emotion and it is you could actually
signal genes ahead of the environment by
changing your emotional state they were
doing it with that intention and when
you assign meaning to the ACT you get a
greater outcome and you turn on the
prefrontal cortex and now your biology
literally begins to change and we have
data that suggests by just having the
intention to make certain genes to make
certain proteins or signal certain genes
and make certain proteins just having
the intention literally begins to cause
the body to make those
chemicals and what causes relapse in
those moments because I've had multiple
moments of where I thought Behavior
change had been established and I
managed to conduct a new habit cycle in
new Behavior favorable in you know
intended behavior for a period and then
something happens in my life almost
subconsciously seamlessly seamlessly and
I'm back yeah to old the old circuitry
you went unconscious you went
unconscious and normally it's some
unconscious to some thought or some
response in your environment you see
someone or you do something or you have
some interaction in your outer world and
the moment you have that interaction you
C it causes you to feel a certain way
and you return back to a to the Past
basically the emotion is the past and
that the body is actually living in the
past it's so objective it doesn't know
the
difference it doesn't know the
difference between the real life
experience that's creating that emotion
and the emotion that person is living by
every day it's believing it's in the
same past experience again and it will
behave in the past and it will think in
the past subconsciously subconsciously
seamlessly so I could for for for
example if going to I don't know let's
say France I had a traumatic experience
in France when I was 10 years old let's
just say and then I go to France when
I'm 30 years old and I get back I just
start eating junk food for example and I
don't know why I've like fallen out of
my gym habit and I'm eating junk food
that that theoretically that could be my
subconscious that um falling back into a
experiencing that survival without me
knowing knowing it yes so so if to
change is to be greater than your
environment to be greater than your body
and to be greater than time then your
neocortex your thinking brain is a
reflection of everything you know in
your life it's an artifact of the past
it's a record repository of everything
you've learned and experienced to this
date and you have a neurological Network
for everything known in your environment
your parents your friends your car your
computer every object every person
everything you have a neurological
Network for your identity as your body
from your past your Ambitions in your
future your brain is a reflection of
everything that's known and because
you've experienced all these elements in
your environment there's an emotion
associated with it so you have an
emotion associated with certain people
different emotions associated with other
people different emotions associated
with other objects and things and other
places in time so
then there's so much research to show
that when you put a person in the same
environment and they see the same people
and they go to the same places and they
do the same things at their exact same
time it's no longer their personalities
creating their personal reality their
personal reality is creating their
personality their environment is
controlling unconsciously or
subconsciously the way they're thinking
and the way they're feeling so when they
see their co-worker when they see their
friend when they see their parents
they're seeing their parents their
friends their co-workers in the
neurological Network as a memory of the
past and because every one of those
people has an emotion associated with it
they start feeling the emotion that's
connected to them and now their state of
being then is returning back to the past
so then to change then is to be
greater than your environment to think
act and feel differently in the same
conditions in your life that's called
change and how does how would I do that
wake from you know I walk in I see my
parents Mom Dad dog house where I grew
up in is there something that I do in
that moment before that moment moment
when I woke up that morning to make sure
that I didn't slip off into the
unconscious um memory and then for
therefore get the sort of unconscious
feelings about that experience well
whatever it is that you want if it's if
it's overeating I don't know I'm making
stuff up if it's some emotional button
that you have with your family and and
you don't want to feel that way yeah I
would rehearse that if I if I didn't
want to have that if if you have a great
if you're I mean I go when I go to my
parents home when I when I got older it
was all most of the associations were so
fond for me just being at home and being
with my parents and remembering where I
grew up it was always fun for me and and
coming back and see how much I changed
in coming back and seeing the the life
that I lived at one point you know one
point in in my timeline so if it's
something that you truly want to change
you're going to remind
yourself how you're not going to think
you're going to you're going to remind
yourself how you're not going to act
you're going to remind yourself how
you're not going to feel and you got to
remind yourself enough time so you don't
forget because the moment you forget you
go unconscious then you're going to
remind yourself how you are going to
think you're going to remind yourself
what you're going to do and rehearse it
in your mind and you're going to remind
yourself what feeling you want to stay
in the entire time so you don't default
back to the old self if you practice
that I guarantee you'll make some
progress if you lose it nothing wrong
tomorrow's another day you got another
chance and we just get really good at
whatever we practice so then when you
return back into your life and you say
okay no person no place no thing No
Object no circumstance no pain no
craving is going to cause me to move
from this state today I guarantee you if
you're able to maintain that modified
State of Mind and Body your entire day
something unusual happen and will come
in a way that you least expect that
surprises you and leaves no doubt that
what you're doing inside of you is
producing some effect outside of you and
the moment you see the feedback in your
environment as a result of your internal
change you're going to pay attention and
do it again and you're going to start
believing got it did I really create
that did that really happen because of
how I changed that's when the game
really begins to become exciting
practice practice I've been at it a long
time I can tell practice yeah um people
hear that they go Joe how long how much
practice you know are you talking about
uh I've got to I've got to do this for
three four five years or you know and
and that practice what does that look
like
practically for someone like me who
hears everything you've just said and
wants to make changes and kers of my
life okay
so there's two times when the door to
the subconscious mind opens up when you
wake up in the morning because your
brain waves are going from Delta to
Theta to Alpha to Beta when you go to
bed at night you go from beta to Alpha
Theta to Delta and you slip through that
scale pretty quickly in the morning in
the evening but your brain waves start
to change during those times and and one
of the features one of the important
elements of meditation is to get beyond
the analytical mind and what separates
the conscious mind from the subconscious
mind is the analytical mind so 5% as we
said is our conscious mind 95% is
programmed subconsciously and if you're
going to try to change yourself with
your conscious mind you're outside the
operating system so then you got to
learn how to change your brain waves
slow them down get beyond the analytical
mind and enter the operating system
where you can rewrite a program where
you can make those changes and
so learn how to do that practice learn
how to do that and again it's not a big
deal it's easy to learn and then once
you can slow your brain waves down and
you're more suggestible to what you're
thinking now you can reprogram you can't
do it with your conscious mind you can
say I'm healthy I'm healthy I'm wealthy
I'm wealthy I'm Unlimited I'm unlimited
I'm happy I'm happy I'm whole unho and
your body saying no you're not dude
you're miserable you're unhappy that
thought never makes it past the brain
stem to reach the body right
so it's important for us to in the
morning or the evening instead of
reaching for our cell phone as the first
thing as a habit that we do and checking
our texts and our WhatsApp and our
Telegram and our social media and our
Instagram and our Twitter and and
Facebook whatever else people do their
emails they get connected to everything
known in their life before you start
that try this out as an experiment
before you start your day instead of
falling into that redundant habit you
know go on autopilot just say okay if
the change is to be greater than my body
to be greater than my environment be
greater than time and and the
environment's so seductive and my body's
craving certain emotions and it's
programmed to get up and do things I'm
going to sit my body down I'm going to
tame the animal here and when I'm ready
to get up we're going to get up not when
it's tired or when it wants to
go if you could literally go Inward and
forget about your outer world no longer
think about anything out there if you
could lose track of the familiar past or
the predictable future and fall into the
present moment and if you were sitting
there in silence aware of nothing but
you and you said okay what is the
greatest expression of myself I can be
today and do that exact process let me
write down two thoughts that are not
going to slip by my awareness unnoticed
by me today two memories whatever it is
what are two behaviors I want to change
today let me stay conscious of them and
not go unconscious to them today even if
it means how I
speak what are two emotions that I live
by every day that I can literally change
I want to become conscious of what they
feel like in my body I want to catch
them the moment I start feeling them let
me review them over and over again
enough times so I don't go unconscious
okay now I'm conscious of my unconscious
that 95% how do I want to think how
would greatness think today let me
review it let me repeat it let me
remember how I am going to think let me
remember how I'm going to behave here
when how am I going to act here let me
rehearse a change I want to make in the
certain circumstance let me think about
how I do want to feel today let me open
my heart to life again let me feel
kindness and care and love gratitude and
appreciation let me let me just bring up
that feeling let me feel it with my
heart let me keep bringing it up so I
can bring it up enough times I want to
get so good at bringing up this feeling
with my eyes closed I can do it with my
eyes
open you practice that and you not make
a decision to not get up until you feel
that
emotion and ask yourself can I stay in
the state my entire day and if you can't
and you go unconscious ask yourself at
the end of the day how'd I do where' I
go unconscious okay okay tomorrow
morning new day new lifetime let me go
again let me try again and it's the
practice it's the repetition that causes
the change now here's the beauty behind
this because all of a sudden when those
synchronicities start to happen when the
coincidences start to happen it's no
longer a have to it's no longer oh geez
I got to go create my life it's not like
that it's like the magic is happening
you don't want it to end like you you
you realize that you are actually
creating outcomes in your life and now
you're not you're you're you're you're
wanting to do the work because you want
the magic to continue in your life and
that's kind of what I'm super proud of
with our community we're doers you know
we they do the work not because they
have to because they love all the
changes that happen in their life as a
result of it whether it's a mystical
experience a transcendental moment you
know a great opportunity in their life
they're like wow I I I somehow had a
hand in creating this and so the so the
excitement of Life The Adventure of Life
the unknown becomes the becomes the
quest I'm so so I got to admit I'm one
of those people that wakes up in the
morning and then just gets dragged
dragged off out of the bed by my phone
and notifications and off into my day
totally
unconscious and there's been so many
things that I reflect on in my life and
go man I just really want to I'll get
home at the end of the day and I'll look
at certain instances where I responded
in certain ways and go man I hate that
about myself and I really want to change
that
and it happens again the next day and I
come home and I think man I hate that
about myself and I really want to change
that and it happens the next day and
it's been happening for two
years when do you want to change
that when you're ready to change that
you will when you're when it's becomes
boring and it becomes predictable I
don't want to have to wait for a crisis
you know cuz well now that you know you
can't not know yeah I know yeah now that
you know you can't not know and on some
level you may have a belief that you
think this is hard yeah I do yeah yeah
because I've struggled with it yeah yeah
and it's just like uh what you going
learning snowboarding and never taking a
lesson right it's going to be like it's
going to be tenuous it's going to be
challenging it's going to be difficult
put your time in learn how to do it and
it gets easier as you do it it's just
like you just just have to learn the
formula there's a formula that we've
discovered that
it's it's actually enjoyable when you do
it right and you actually like it and
people want to do more of it because it
feels so good and I mean we see you look
at the the HRV measurements with our
community look at our brain scans these
are people that they're not faking
ecstasy they're not Faking It their
brain is at such a a level of arousal
and the arousal is not pain the arousal
is not fear the arousal is not
aggression or anger the arousal is
ecstasy the brain is going going in this
heightened state they're making a
connection to something really big and
that feels really good and when they
realize that they've hit something
really big and it's not coming from
anyone or anything outside of them they
stop looking for it out there and they
realize it's been within them the whole
time I think I think so many people want
so many things in their life but what we
really want is wholeness because when
you have wholeness you can't want how
could you want when you're whole you
only want when you're in lack when
there's brain and heart coherence
um there's a level of wholeness that
takes place where a person is no longer
interested in separation or lack they
feel like they have everything they want
that's a great place to be in and we've
discovered that the more relaxed you are
in your heart the more awake you are in
your brain it's relaxed in the heart and
awake in the brain and we teach that
people actually can get good at doing
that I really want to talk to you about
this brain coherence and this heart
coherence um I have to close off on that
morning routine thing by asking you
exactly what did you do this morning oo
this
morning uh I was up probably around uh
4:30 yeah why because there's nobody
that can bother me at that time there's
no emails there's no texts there's
there's no there's my it's my time what
time were you in
bed um probably between 10 and 11: okay
is that not enough sleep for you huh
well no that is I think I I actually
measure my sleep so I and I look at it
every day that's part of the reason I'm
dragged out of bed but yeah for me 4 in
the morning 5 in the morning is a really
great time I just I I've just
conditioned my body that way um that's
the time and and I I spend a little time
uh remembering what I'm doing what am I
doing what are you doing in this
meditation why are you doing this
meditation what are you about to do I
like to just get myself in my think box
organizing what am I not going to think
about what am I going to stay away from
what am I not going to do in my
meditation me review that what am what
am I going to do when I get that all
worked out then I get in my playbox in
my playbox there's no thinking I've got
all the thinking done in my think box my
play box it's really about me changing
my state and so um I allow for two hours
every morning doesn't mean I always take
it or need it let me say that but I
allow for two hours sometimes I like to
just get my mind straight and then uh I
do the work I do the work and and uh I
like to get to that point where when I'm
done I feel like something changed do
the work yeah what does the work look
like it's meditation yeah it's finding
the present moment it's getting into the
unknown it's getting Beyond Myself
disconnecting from my body getting
Beyond any thought of anyone or anything
getting Beyond Time moving beyond space
and time
turns out when you focus on nothing
there are so many amazing things that
happen to your brain I've seen this
scans over and over
again what have you seen in the
scans well there's this thing in the
brain called
modularity and when we're living uh by
the hormones of stress and stress is
when you can't predict something when
you can't control something or you have
the perception that something's going to
get worse you switch on that fight ORF
flight nervous system and the rush of
those chemical
causes us to become alert to become
aroused and we narrow our focus on the
material world and so when you're not
able to control everything in your life
and you can't predict everything in your
life you start shifting your attention
to everyone and everything every person
every object every place we've all had
that experience when we're under stress
and every one of those people those
objects those things those places has a
neurological Network in the brain so
like a lightning storm in the clouds the
brain begins to fire out of order very
incoherent ently it becomes modulated or
compartmentalized It's A house divided
against itself and those individual
compartments don't talk to the rest of
the brain and we tend to get overfocused
you never notice when you're under
stress you're obsessing about something
you're over focusing about something
you're overthinking something you're
overanalyzing you're driving your brain
higher and higher into higher states of
arousal High beta brain wave
patterns we discovered that if you teach
a person to go from a narrow focus on
something physical something material
and broaden their focus open their
awareness and put their attention on
space on nothing and create what's
called a Divergent Focus the act of
sensing and no longer analyzing thinking
begins to slow the brain waves down from
that beta brain wave state to a
low-level beta and then all of a sudden
to Alpha if they keep doing it sensing
space tends to cause those different
compartments that were modulated or
divided to begin to synchronize
and what sinks in the brain actually
links in the brain so the brain starts
firing in a more holistic state in other
words every single area of the brain is
resonating at the same frequency and now
the brain is functioning as one
neurological network instead of
individuals that kind of holism that
kind of order feels really good it feels
really good and so people practice
slowing their brain waves down not only
to get beyond the analytical mind but to
cause the brain to fire in a more
coherent way and if we're going to have
a clear intention about what we want the
more coherent the brain the clearer the
intention so we've seen in seven days
even in four days these dramatic changes
in the levels of coherence and order
that take place in the brain the brain's
firing in a more holistic State that's
when the person notices a change in
their anxiety and the depression and
there PS PTSD whatever it is there's
more order in the brain and and uh the
ACT to focusing on nothing and opening
your awareness to space creates that
kind of amazing change did you set an
intention this morning I
did can you tell me what it is
oo um I want to be relaxed and awake I
want to be present with everything that
I do um I want to stay in my heart the
entire day and um I want to be inspired
by you know the idea of helping people
change do you struggle I do yeah what
you struggle with well now um I run a
lot of
different aspects of my company I have
events side uh we have a product side we
have corporate Consulting we have 250
corporate trainers uh we have a vitamin
uh company uh called biospy we work with
remote coherence healers that actually
are we do research and they're remotely
changing People's Health we have a huge
research team with University of
California s Diego uh we have a lot of
players on the team we have um uh
nonprofits uh what else do we have um we
have an inner Health Coalition for
Physicians and and doctors and
Healthcare practitioners around the
world that want to teach a different
model so I have a lot of different
things that I have my hand in um and I
think uh you know I'm creative by nature
and I like to be creative and sometimes
I have a lot of obligations in terms of
making making decisions for
2026 uh decisions about things that I
need to do uh documentaries whatever it
is uh and I think I struggle with not
having wanting more time for being
creative and that's kind of the fun part
of my job whether I look at the data I
see the research and then I go oh my God
I want to do a meditation now I
understand how to do this meditation or
teach this
better all the information that we're
gathering in our research is to teach
transformation better that's why I went
close the gap between knowledge and
experience so it's we have billions of
data points and it's a a lot of time uh
to look through all that and to learn
about it uh but if I would if I would
choose to do something I would love to
study the research more love to uh do
more me Teach um um uh create more
meditations you know teach some more
unique courses uh and so I I think I I
think one of my challenges really is to
is to be able to stay creative uh with
everything I have going on in my life I
think everyone that's a high achiever
always wishes they could pause time I
think um we're we're at such a level of
growth right now to just uh uh
globally I mean our events sell out in
10 minutes you know 5 10 minutes and and
we have a waiting list of uh sometimes
10,000 people that's a problem you know
that's a and and I won't give up doing
um Live Events you know and I think it's
I won't do it online I think it's
there's something special that happens
uh in community and so I've never met
someone who is so Mission driven and
doing so well in this department that
also isn't paying a personal cost for
the mission in some regard or capacity
well I think I've learned a few things
over the years about
that and I think one of the great things
number one is I have an amazing team I
mean I nothing without my team uh and
they're creatives and they're cool and
they're emotionally intelligent and they
they're not nineo FS they share the same
Mission with me they they see the same
vision they they do it for the same
reason somehow they're part of that that
change and
transformation um so my team um uh is
able to allow me to do something really
really unique and that is to focus on
focus on what I love to do more than
anything else so uh my team is super
super huge help for me so I I I think
that it's an important element the other
thing that I work on I think every day
of my life is uh to be the example of
everything that I teach I I mean that's
important for me because uh uh I want to
be I want to be in the game with
everybody so when I see transformation
when I see Miracles when I see healings
when I see change when I see poor people
become rich whatever that
is and I'm a part of that I think it's
really it humbles me it really makes me
more humble in seeing what's possible
for human beings and and so I never want
this work to be about me I want it to be
about you I want it to be I want to
celebrate your story uh you know I I
want I want to I want to be there for
that person when they open their eyes
and were blind and they're seeing for
the first time I want to be right there
I want to be there I want to remember
that moment uh and and and her
Joy um
so for me I I work on on being the
example uh in every way that I can and
and and it sometimes it requires um a
lot you know extra time to do that
yeah what is what is the what is the um
and this is an interesting use of phrase
because I'm saying the word cost is as
as as if it's a negative but I just I
think everyone that's leading a mission
whatever that might be and really
dedicated to that mission in the way
that you are flying around the world
continuing to do it in person where most
people you know everyone knows you could
just do it online and you'd probably
make more money to be honest you know
there's people that just have moved
online post pandemic you're you're
giving a level of dedication and
personal investment into this mission
that must well I assume it must come at
a personal cost to some
degree um you make sacrifices um you
have to sacrifice uh relationships at
time you know sometimes you can't be
where you want to be um but I think that
the people in my life that love me
understand my mission uh and and they
respect that uh sometimes I'm on six
different time zones in four weeks and
and that's a lot for my body you know
but um God watching somebody on the
stage just the other day tell the story
of how she overcame trifacial neuralgia
in One Moment In the Event she wanted
someone to chop her head off that's how
much pain she had had in her face for
years one moment she said I have no pain
I was the first time I've not had pain
in
years uh to me like that's worth all the
lost luggage the misf flights the uh the
jet lag that to me is worth more than
all the gold in the world I mean I don't
know it's just so it's so uncommon and
yet something innate in US wakes up
something wakes up in us uh when we see
that we we we forgot we forgot and
somehow remember
so um you ask my staff what is the
greatest part of their job they'll tell
you being a part of transformation being
a part of it being a part of that so
there is a cost um always uh uh and at
the same time I really I really work on
uh figuring out ways to do things better
I mean uh I think that's one of the
things I love about myself is just
learning learning from my experience
learning from my past and I think
experience is the Great greatest
professor and and just saying okay if I
had another opportunity how could we do
it differently how could we serve better
you know how can we make it easier what
can we do differently and and again I
just have a great team that's super
committed to whether they're running
events whether they're creating logos
whether they're doing a brand whether
they're managing the website whatever
they're you know running them composing
music with me for
meditations uh or doing research we just
have a really people that share that
same Mission and and I think
um changing individuals one by one to
somehow make a change in the world being
a part of that's pretty cool was there a
cous moment in your life that sent you
more so in this
direction um sure I I mean I got run
over by a truck in a triathlon in 1986
in Palm Springs California and um I
broke six vertebrae in my spine and I
had bone fragments on my spinal cord and
I had the neural arch of T8 uh pressing
on the cord so uh the typical uh
prognosis for that you know is is uh
Harrington Rod Surgery they they put
these long stainless steel rods in your
spine so in my case it would be from the
base of my neck to the base of my spine
stabilize the entire
spine and
um I just had four opinions from four of
the leading surgeons in Southern
California and I was in my 20s and I
just I just couldn't imagine myself
living
on you know addictive medications or not
being able to do whatever I love to do
physically so I decided not to have the
surgery I just went against the the
opinions of the experts and I just
thought maybe there's a way that my my
mind could heal my body and so um that
started my journey and somehow it worked
so I've been spending the rest of my
life studying that had that not happened
do you think you would have gone a in a
different direction sure
absolutely absolutely yeah
what if the worst thing that happened to
you was the best thing that happened to
you I don't
know and that starts this this you
create this belief in your mind that you
can heal yourself using your mind well
it was kind of crazy because um I think
when you're faced with crisis like I in
a situation like this we tend to focus
on the worst thing that could happen
instead of the best thing that could
happen and that's because of the
hormones of stress and emergency you
always prepare for the worst better
chances of survival if you think about
the worst so it took an enormous amount
of energy for me to stop that to stop
thinking that way and stop feeling that
way 6 and a half weeks of a Dark Night
of the soul I would say because I
couldn't get my brain to do what I
wanted it to do even though I
theoretically and understood it I just
kept defaulting and uh spent hours and
finally uh I was able to to kind of get
control over it and then soon as I
started noticing some changes in my body
that's when I that's when I just the
moment I started feeling my limbs again
and the moment I started noticing I was
moving a little
better I knew somehow I was having an
effect and that's that's the moment it
all changed for
me running all these businesses Joe and
you have such an Empire of businesses
and projects and people and teams all
over the world how have you managed your
relationship with technology because
technolog is on omnipresent in my life
yeah and that's why I say I get dragged
out of bed by it Stephen I never planned
on doing any of this
I never I never planned on doing any of
this I mean all the corporate stuff just
came out of a few lectures because there
were CEOs and presidents of companies
that urged me to create a model for
change for companies and organizations I
never wanted to do that I never wanted
to do interner Health Coalition with
doctors just our community there's an
emergent Consciousness that says please
do that you know so we're we're working
on uh in the same vein of the same
mission
giving people our community listening to
our community and creating you know more
of that for people I don't have I don't
have any difficulty if it's part of the
mission to do any of those things I
think it's uh I think it if I were just
doing my
events and and that's it and we could
just do that my life would be a whole
lot simpler but all these other things
that we're doing now in terms of they
they also bear a lot of fruit I mean the
research that we're doing right now is
is I can say right now Stephen that what
we're doing is no longer pseudo science
I can say that now it's no longer pseudo
science I can say that in seven days
your body can make a a pharmacy of
chemicals that work better than any drug
I can tell you that one intervention
called meditation can change a host of
different health conditions there's no
drug that does that so if I weigh those
all those different things that I have
to evolve uh in some way against the
effects it's producing it's always for
me worth the effort are you happy yeah
what does that mean um that I don't need
anyone or anything to make me
happy that's your definition of
happiness I think yeah I mean if you
have a kind of a freedom of expression
without any real limitation and you're
and you're comfortable with you and
you're and you love what you're doing
and you feel good about it and sure I
mean I'm always in the river of change
I'm always looking for blind spots I'm
always working on evolving who I am I
always want to be I always want to
evolve my experience I always want to
look to see if it serves me uh so um do
you have sad days I have I have days
where I'm
overwhelmed by just just everything and
what's what are the symptoms of that
overwhelm um it takes me a little bit to
focus my attention again just too many
things I have to think about so I have
to take a little time and get get uh
centered and organized but do I have sad
days I don't know sad I don't really
know sad but uh kind of a days where I'm
um kind of kind of
introspective uh without needing much
emotion yeah I I have those days yeah if
this were to be your last day on Earth
Joe wow
and there
was just a central message that the
millions of people you know that could
be listening right now you felt that
they needed to hear that would serve
them the best and serve us collectively
the
best what might that Central message
be it's important for people to believe
in themselves I think it's really
important for people to remember that
they're the creators on some level uh
and they have a hand in creating in
their life and that
uh possibility is something that they
should always keep their mind open to I
think that we're greater than we think
we're more powerful than we know more
unlimited than we could ever
dream do you realize how many people
you've
helped um gosh I don't know I don't know
maybe you must be moved by the feedback
you get because I was reading through
testimonials and messages and all the
top comments and stuff and it's really
really profound stuff you know and I
it's hard to imagine a world where that
that doesn't touch you know it it sit
with you for Better or For Worse you you
know people stop me a lot of times and
I'll be somewhere and they'll say hey I
I know you hear this a lot but um you
you really help me or you really changed
my life and I always say to them I never
I never get tired of of the story it's
the feedback for me that uh inspires me
to keep doing what I'm doing so I love
the stories I I love those I love to
hear them and it uh it challenges many
times my own belief about what's
possible so um yeah I think I I I'm I
love to celebrate that with people this
next chapter of your life is successful
if we sit here 10 years from now and you
say Steve that was an fantastic decade
for you what would have happened in that
decade for you to say that gosh um we
would publish a lot of papers that show
um how powerful people really are um we
would have our own research center where
we could do even further studies on
cancer on uh all different chronic
health conditions uh we were studying
the effects of healing on others and we
have really profound data on that as
well um I think that the conversation in
in healthcare and Medicine could change
on some level I mean the
conversations that I'm I'm having with
researchers and Physicians are not the
same conversations I was having just two
years ago especially when they look at
our data they they kind of fall out of
their chair I mean it's I mean as an
example a drug
study is about 25% causality one and
four responds and it's
usually you know 60 days 90 days a year
before you see a
change our data is between 75 and
85% causality that means eight out of 10
people are getting a response and
they're not taking anything no exogenous
substance in other
words their their nervous system is
producing a pharmacy of chemicals that
works better than any drug right so I
think the conversation around emotional
regulation and emotional health uh could
change that's something that I'm
interested
in I think meditation could be something
that is a a way of life for more people
to to be healthier and to be be happier
and to be more whole uh I mean when I
started this journey Steph you couldn't
even say meditation in public you
couldn't even couldn't say it in certain
organizations corporations government
agencies it was not allowed right now
it's sexy now it's cool right um
so
demystifying uh that process because
there's so many colloquialisms and
slangs and idioms that have to do with
meditation demystifying that process you
know we don't teach any traditional
meditation we don't teach anything
that's based on culture religion we we
teach meditation based on the data we
see based on the brain scans based on
the hrvs based on the data that we're
collecting we know the we know the words
now we know the music we know the timing
we know a lot of things uh in terms of
transformation that has helped us in so
many ways so what do you think is going
to become sexy in 10 years from now
that's not sexy now like meditation God
I hope it's not
AI I hope it's not I hope it's not AI I
hope it's uh something that has to do
with the human Spirit ladies and
gentlemen I'm interrupting this
broadcast with a very special
announcement two years ago I started
writing a book based on everything I've
learned from doing this podcast and
meeting all of the incredible people
that I've had the privilege of meeting
but also from my career in business from
running my marketing businesses my
software business my investment fund and
everything else that I've been doing in
business and life and from this I've
created a brand new book called the
Diary of a CEO the 33 laws for business
and life if you want to build something
great or become great yourself like the
guest that I've sat here and interviewed
I ask you please please please read
these 33 laws the book I always should
have written if you like this podcast
this book is for you and it is available
now in the description of this podcast
below and every single day until it's
out later this month one person that
pre-orders it that takes a picture of
their pre-order uploads it to their
story on Instagram or social media and
tags me will win a Gold version of this
book signed by me and there's only 33
copies of those
available so pre-order it now tag me on
social media when you
do and 33 of you are going to win a very
very special book for those of you that
don't know this podcast is sponsored by
whoop a company that I'm a shareholder
in and I'm obsessed with my whoop it's
glued to my R 24/7 and for those of you
that don't know it's essentially a
personalized wearable health and fitness
coach that helps me to have the best
possible Health my whoop has literally
changed my life whoop is doing something
this month which I'd highly suggest
checking out it's a global Community
challenge called The Core Four challenge
essentially they guide you through a set
of four activities throughout the month
of August that are scientifically proven
to improve your overall health I'm
giving it a go and I can't wait to see
the impact it has on me and I highly
recommend you to join me with that so if
you're not on whoop here there is no
better time to start if you're a friend
of mine there's a high probability that
I've already given you a whoop but cuz
I'm that obsessed with it it is the
thing that I check when I wake up in the
morning it's the first thing that I look
at I want the information on my sleep to
then plan my day around so if you
haven't joined whoop yet head to join.
whoop.com
CEO to get your free whoop device and
your first month free try it for free
and if you don't like it after 29 days
they're going to give you your money
back but I have a suspicion that you're
going to keep it check it out now and
let me know how you get on send me a DM
much of your work is now trying to bring
bring people together in 3D
and I saw this um as I was on your
website earlier on today I was looking
at some of your upcoming initiatives one
in particular was this walk that you're
doing which I found really really
interesting um this is the first ever
Global walk that will take place on
Saturday September the 23rd 20 um 23
this year um all the details are at walk
for the dot world so
www.walk for theworld and I was reading
about why you're doing this the words
Community came up the words illusion of
Separation came up yeah I think you know
if you study the peace Gathering
projects that have been done
peer-reviewed articles of Peace
Gathering projects when people come into
a community they meditate on peace City
the prime crime rates go down violence
goes down car crashes car accidents go
down economic growth goes up somehow
there's a change in the in the
collective but when the meditation ends
in the peace Gathering proc ends the
crime rate returns back to the same the
you know the the car accidents and the
violence return back to the same sealing
value as it was
before it's not enough to
just uh pray it's time to be the prayer
right so walking meditation we do in our
community and we do a lot of them
because you got to be able to walk as it
you got to be able to do it with your
eyes open doing it with your eyes closed
is a practice so you can do it with your
eyes open so you can demonstrate it
demonstrate peace demonstrate love
demonstrate um change for the world and
so uh the walking meditations there's
four types of meditations there's seated
meditation we do a lot of that and
that's traditional there's a standing
and walking meditation and there's a
lying down meditation we teach all of
those but the standing and walking
meditation is a great way to stand up
for the
world and decide if I change and have
enough of us change we could actually
change the world so meditation starts
with our eyes closed standing up with
our eyes closed and getting into an
altered
music changes we open our eyes and we
walk as that change we embody that
change we live that change we think
about what we're going to leave behind
for a new world what what what if I
change what would be could I am I part
of the whole could I affect the
whole and so a person walks for a period
of time they stop again they close their
eyes they recalibrate they get back in
that feeling they open their eyes and
they walk again and so walking
meditation is a great way for uh
thousands and thousands of people from
around the world
to walk for change in the world and and
and we have such compelling data about
Collective networks of observers with
brain and heart coherence that somehow
when you have a random event generator
in our in our ballrooms and people
change their state and they have an
intention that random events become less
random and more intentional in other
words a machine that's programmed to
toss a coin a thousand times a second
second multiple times a second the more
you toss a coin the more you're going to
get 50/50 right so if you if you have a
machine in the room and and nobody's in
the room you see just kind of this line
stay right around the 50/50 mark But
when you fill that room with people and
they change their state and they have an
intention all of a sudden you see that
line break way out of normal and a
program machine that's normally flipping
zeros and ones starts behaving very
differently it tells us that Collective
networks begin to determine reality and
it's not the number of people it's not
the amount of energy you got have
entropic energy it's the mo most
coherent group of people so if we come
together on one day and this will be one
of many
walks you leave everything
behind bring your family bring your
friends bring your co-workers bring your
neighbors you never have to have done a
meditation before we'll will'll guide
people through it uh we'll give them the
MP3 file and um we have just over 800 or
900 cities now from around the world uh
that are from people from around the
world that are participating and the
numbers are growing so we don't know
where it'll go but it's our first uh
attempt to just say if we just could
move the needle one degree and off that
trajectory off that timeline just in
another timeline then it served its
purpose so so um yeah we're excited
about it it's the first one and
hopefully we'll do uh some more I'll put
all the details below wherever you're
listening to this so you can check it
out is it I was wondering as you were
speaking Joe I was was asking myself
you're someone that's constantly doing
research and developing new ideas and
hypotheses about the world and the way
humans are and the way the universe is
do there exist beliefs in your head that
you're too scared to
share you mean beliefs that I have that
that are from
experience or beliefs that I have that
I'm that are conjectures either both
yeah I have a very strong belief that
that um the probability of us seeing the
truth and reality is zero I think that
we perceive less than 1% of reality the
the brain is missing out on a lot of
data and I think that we should never
exclude
ourselves from the unknown you know I
think there's a whole part of the
unknown self that that we're unaware of
that that I'm that I think exists Beyond
linear uh time and space
and I and I do believe that that it's
real and and you don't know what that is
oh I do yeah yeah I think it's a realm
beyond space and time that that I think
uh you know your eye right now is
perceiving a very small spectrum of
frequency visible light it's a very tiny
slice in the electromagnetic uh spectrum
and that visible light red orange yellow
blue green indigo violet is is actually
uh bouncing off of the slowest and most
stable form of energy called matter and
that gives us this perception of
Separation right well that small
spectrum is less than 1% of what we
actually can perceive so I think that
our senses plug us into reality into
three-dimensional reality but I think
there are realities that exist beyond
space and time that we're unaware of
that we can tap into yeah yeah I do and
I think there are latent systems in the
brain that once activated allows the
brain to transduce that energy that
frequency into profound uh information
the psychedelics drug drugs work in in
that in that way I think psychedelics uh
give a person a perception of reality
that's beyond three-dimensional reality
we're discovering that the nervous
system makes its own Pharmacy of
psychedelics in fact we have really
recent data that shows that um many
people that have a mystical experience
in our work that have
fmis uh look like they're on
psilocybin yeah and yet your nervous
system is making that that that uh
natural
chemical
endogenously and how were those mystical
experiences triggered I'll give you the
short version um there's a tiny little
gland in the back of your brain called
the pineal gland and the pineal gland
has tiny little crystals inside of it
that are stacked up on top of each other
rhombohedron in shape and that little
tiny gland acts like a radio receiver
for electromagnetic frequencies and when
those crystals be can can become
activated uh like a radio receiver they
can pick up frequencies that are beyond
your senses the quantum and they can
transduce it's called a transducer it
can transduce that frequency like a TV
antenna into profound imagery
a very full-on sensory experience
without your
senses
interesting explains a
lot explains a lot my girlfriend always
talks to me about the penal gland and
DMT and you know and the power of
everything you've just
described I just want to remain
open-minded because being closed-minded
at any point in my life is not conducive
with progress and growth so my my um
desire in doing this podcast generally
is just to learn from people that have
New Perspectives on the nature of the
world and to
remain humble in the fact that I know
very little so what you said at the end
there about us knowing almost knowing
zero about the nature of true reality or
whatever that might mean I do believe I
do believe that I know very little about
the true nature of reality and my senses
have deceived me whether it's in
psychedelic States or other states so
I'm very aware how the fragility of this
experience or you know whether the truth
is what I think it is yeah well um I
think it only takes one mystical Moment
One transcendental moment for us to
realize that um we're missing out on a
little bit of
reality we have a closing tradition on
this podcast where the last guest leaves
a question for the next guest without
knowing who they're leaving a question
for if you were made president oh boy of
this
country and you had to implement laws
that would make Our Lives better wow
what would you do and
why Wow where do we
[Laughter]
start oh boy
um well um I would consider education uh
to be a much bigger priority for uh both
people that teach uh that they're reward
wed in a in a better way and the
educational system to be uh more
Socratic and more stimulating for uh
people to question and and and to have
healthy debates I think that's great um
I would consider looking at the medical
Model A little bit more and really look
to see if healthc care is really uh
helping people in this country uh I
would find ways
to uh unify
uh uh different uh uh sects or or
different uh uh organizations or bring
them together bring them to the middle
in some way I I I
think uh standing up for
principles in instead of politics is is
a really healthy thing to do uh I'd
probably try to figure out a way to
reduce the debt to end War uh to find
ways that we could coexist with
countries um I'd certainly think a lot
about artificial intelligence and decide
if it was uh really really healthy for
human
beings
uh I I would uh encourage in many ways
uh different religions to come together
and and find ways to to um to get
along um I would spend a lot of time
with regenerative agriculture in
bringing life back to the soil and back
to the Earth uh
and figur out ways to help the the
oceans and species that are passing and
and to address uh healthy food food that
is good for people that that is medicine
for people Joe thank you for your work
and thank you on behalf of all the
people the millions of people all around
the world that you're clearly helping
without really even knowing it um I've
never seen such profound testimonials in
any you know in anything I've ever seen
and also the reason why I actually have
this on the table isn't because you
asked to promote me I think your team
actually said I didn't need to put on
the table but it's because one of our
members of our team um their elderly
relative has been going through a lot of
a lot of pain and struggle in their
lives um and they read your book and it
really really helped them this week oh
that's great so they asked if they could
you could get if I could get it signed
on behalf of them absolutely which I
think is a testament to to the impact
you're having on people so thank you so
much Joe it's an honor no thank you
Stephen for all the work you do also I
appreciate it
it's funny every year around this time
of year for whatever reason I go on a
little bit of a psychological shift and
that psychological shift I think is
somewhat inspired by summer but it's
also inspired by the fact that I want to
feel strong in this season of life and
as I age strength training is my number
one form of training and the question
becomes how do you build muscle and how
do you become strong in terms of
supplementation and this is where hu's
nutritionally complete protein product
is my best friend for a couple of
reasons one it tastes better than any
protein product I've ever tried two in
terms of the nutritionally complete
aspect it has the vitamin and minerals
you need it's about a 100 calories so
it's incredibly light but it also packs
over 20 gram of protein into every
serving try The Salted Caramel flavor it
is the bomb and let me know how you get
on
[Music]
ah